## Background and Requirement:

In threat hunting, the amount of invovled knowledge, information and dataset are huge.
These includes 
1. knowledge on OS, protocol, networking, and cloud, 
2. threat inteligence TTPs, 
3. local envioronment of assets, application, dependency and network enclaves,
4. log, configuration and deployment files, software version and patchs,
5. local context of risks and vonulbilitys, attack chains,
6. the dynamic characteristics of new threat intelligence reports.

GPT modele can provide an ideal solution by consolidating these huge amount of knowledge and information,
and interactively guided to an executable solution with feedbacks prompts to feed the local relevent contexts.

Compare with other security products, the platform empowered by GPT model 
provides a huge knowledge base, updated threat intelegences and natural language interface.
A platform with the capability of interactively refine user's exploration is desired,
it is like a cutomized tools for security expert to explore the envioronment, vonulbility and threat.

The solution generated by GPT  should be easy to understand, accurate and executable.
A declarative data processing language - KiwiSpec is selected to capture the solution generated from the GPT model. 

KiwiSpec is designed for accessing json-formated log and configuration files for data manipulation,
aggregation, transformation, information extraction and constrain validation. 

As a declarative language, KiwiSpec closely resembles natural language but with accurate semantics. 
Specifications written in KiwiSpec are easy to adopt, read, maintain, and are unambiguous.

KiwiSpec borrows the basic language structure from SQL 
while extending the capabilities to access and query JSON data fields.

Althoug we can have GPT model to generate code in languages like Python, C, SQL, and others, 
KiwiSpec is selected as the interface bacuse it would be closer to 
describ the original request and easier to understand, proofread, and modify.


## Introduction:

Natural language interface, interactively , huge knowledge base + threat intelegent + mittir attack + pre defined prompts
explore envioronment, baseline, anomaly and outlier. 
save prompt, response, kiwispec, output data
generate security rules

1. explore your enviorontment and develope the baseline by aggregation, grouping, labaling, cross referencing
2. learn what should be then should not be : application, access, internet access, software version, process started
     normaly vs anormaly, 


HuntingEnv provides an interactively test/run loop with naturaly language interface and empowered by GPT with knowledge based, threat intelegent, mittir attack
and implementation by KiwiSpec with a declarative language to explore applications, dependency, software version, 
network enclaves, security posture, anomaly, outlier. 
The platform is facilitated with report generation, and best practice and securty rule generation.

HuntingEnv is powered by GPT and KiwiSpec

Stages:
Learn environment, 
discover vulnobility, 
develope baseline
find anomaly and outlier
create security rules
documenting in any stage

flow: 
Hyposis development:
1. prompts to gethering knowledge
2. prompts to consolidate involved logs and configurations, the format and fields
Qury planning:
3. pull in involved log and configuration: local file locations
KiwiSpec generation:
3. natural language query prompt translate to kiwispec query
4. editing kiwispec
5. test kiwispec
   go back to 2
Close one Hyposis:
6. save selected: knowledge, prompt, kiwispec and output
   go back to 1
7. develope security rules and setup automation

## HungingEnv 

A huntingEnv is an interactiv platform for user to discover their envioronment by natural language quries. 
The platform provides user the capability to explore their envioronment for assets, applications, activites and dependencies, 
anomaly and outliers, vonerablities, violations and attack pathes. 

During exploration, user can inquire the platform Empowered by GPT for the knowledge of networking, cloud, security 
and threat intelegence and incorperate the knowledge into their exploration process.


The platform is build from Kiwispec language and integrated with GPT model. The data source are log files,
configuration files, and deployment files in json format.

Users can use natural language to describe what they want to explor,
how they want to classify their assets, what activites they want to exame with time intervals,
and the relationship they want to trace along a path.

Users requests are translated to executables in Kiwispec. 
Kiwispec is a SQL like query language
with the extension of the capabilty to access and query JSON-formatted dataset. 
kiwispec is a declarative language talored for data access, data manipulation, 
information extraction, and constraint validation with json-formated data set.

The platform integrated with GPT model has built in promts and built in best practice rules.
Kiwispec platform supports an interactive interface. User can interactivly
explore and fine tune their queries. 
To get meaningful classification of assets and applications and capture the right baseline of dependency and activites,
Kiwispec platform provides user an interactive interface with test run and result analysis. 
During exploration exercise, user can fine tune their query, aggregation and classification cretiera.
The interactive platform allows user to incorperate 
configured indentity and software updates to explore vonerabilites and the attack paths,
User can consult the platform powered by GPT for the knowledge of os, networking, cloud, security 
and threat intelegence interactively.

Once the meaningful classification, aggregation and baseline are achieved.
The finalized kiwispec can be used in automation for on going update.
Security rules can also derived to identify anolaly, outlier and violation.


